Official Review of Submission32282 by Reviewer bDeY
Official Reviewby Reviewer bDeY25 Jun 2026, 06:46 (modified: 24 Jul 2026, 22:59)Program Chairs, Senior Area Chairs, Area Chairs, Reviewers Submitted, Reviewer bDeY, AuthorsRevisions
Summary:
This paper introduces a combination of multiple steps to use teacher data in LLM training. Specifically, it introduces Baseline Separation, DR3, Adaptive Behavior Cloning, and the State Channel. The combination leads to good performance on 2 benchmarks where state matching (required by the State Channel) is readily feasible.

Contribution Type: General: Most submissions will fall into this type.
Strengths And Weaknesses:
Strengths

The paper is clear and easy to follow.
The idea of training a discriminator to estimate the importance ratio between student and teacher rollouts is interesting to me.
The experimentation results show meaningful improvements in the selected domains.
The ablations show that all components are useful in the proposed method.
Weaknesses

Claim about being "principled"

Several important components appear heuristic rather than theoretically derived. In particular, the State Channel uses environment-specific state matching and trajectory-level reward shaping that the authors acknowledge is not policy-invariant. It is also crucial empirically: without it, performance is comparable to SFT+GRPO on ALFWorld (31.0% versus 30.0%) but substantially worse on WebShop (1.0% versus 18.5%). Thus, it is unclear whether the results support the proposed principled corrections or primarily reflect the benefit of a strong handcrafted shaping signal.
DR3 might also be a bit questionable on whether it is "principled". The discriminator weight 
 is already the full off-policy correction for a teacher sample. Why does Eq. 9 then also multiply by 
? That makes the weight 
, double-counting 
.
Breadth of the evaluation and potential limitation of the applicability

ALFWorld and WebShop are appropriate benchmarks, but the empirical scope is narrow and unusually favorable to the proposed State Channel, since both provide structured textual states amenable to handcrafted matching. It may require substantial adaptation to work in domains where exact state matching is hard, such as math or other reasoning tasks. The methods it compares to, such as CHORD, are more generally applicable.

Quality: 2: not good
Clarity: 3: good
Significance: 2: not good
Originality: 2: not good
Questions:
What are the actual group composition numbers (
 on-policy and 
 teacher per prompt)? Is 
 a fixed number, i.e. keep generating teacher rollouts until 
 successful rollouts are collected?

In the SFT-GRPO baseline, does SFT use the exact same amount of data from the teacher? I assume yes if my understanding of "cache" is correct, because the paper says "the same teacher cache is used for all methods that require teacher trajectories." Can you maybe add the SFT training curve showing performance w.r.t. optimization epoch/step so that it is easy to evaluate whether SFT is properly executed.

Can you add more details about the rollouts collected from the teacher? Like the size of the teacher cache, the average number of teacher rollouts per prompt, etc.

Limitations:
The authors' own limitation section has discussed a decent number of limitations that I can think of.

Rating: 3: Borderline reject: Technically solid paper where reasons to reject, e.g., limited evaluation, outweigh reasons to accept, e.g., good evaluation. Please use sparingly.
Confidence: 4: You are confident in your assessment, but not absolutely certain. It is unlikely, but not impossible, that you did not understand some parts of the submission or that you are unfamiliar with some pieces of related work.
Ethical Concerns: NO or VERY MINOR ethics concerns only
Paper Formatting Concerns:
Not all "the strongest non-DUET baseline" is underlined in Table 1. The underlines are missing for the 3B experiments.
Code Of Conduct Acknowledgement: Yes
Responsible Reviewing Acknowledgement: Yes